Stardate 50252.3.
Helmsman's Log,
PARIS:
takes on supplies,
While Voyager
Lieutenant Torres and I
are investigating
some intermittent
sensor readings
we picked up this morning.
( sighs )
We've been out here
almost five hours
and we haven't seen any sign
of those energy signatures.
Isn't it time to admit
they were nothing more
background noise?
than galactic
I want to keep looking
a while longer.
Just to be sure.
Aah!
What's wrong?
Cramp.
Klingon bodies weren't meant
to sit in a cockpit
for five hours
at a stretch.
You have a big dinner
date or something?
What's that supposed to mean?
Well, you've been angling
to get back to Voyager
for about two hours now.
Just thought maybe
there was a reason.
Like Ensign Bristow.
What?
Well, I've noticed he's
been making any excuse
to hang around Engineering.
Around you.
Freddy Bristow... is a child.
Oh, really?
Well, he looks like
a grownup to me.
Tall, good-looking...
and I hear he plays
a mean set
of parrises squares.
I played one game with him
and I whipped him.
Look, he has
a crush on me.
I can handle it.
Why are you so interested?
Oh, I'm just curious...
how someone with Klingon blood
seems to live the life
of a Tabran monk.
Lieutenant, that is none
of your business.
Well, if you ever have
a free evening,
I have a holodeck program
you might enjoy--
sailing on Lake Como.
I'd rather take my chances
with Freddy Bristow.
( console beeps )
Those energy signatures
are back.
into a tachyon field.
We must have crossed
( console beeps insistently )
What's that?
A ship has locked
onto our hull.
Why didn't we
detect it?
The tachyon field must have
disrupted our sensors.
( speaking clicking language )
I'm Lieutenant Tom Paris of...
( both grunt )
( clicking )
♪ O soave fanciulla ♪
MAN:
♪ O dolce viso ♪
♪ Di mite circonfuso
alba lunar ♪
♪ In terra, vivo ravviso ♪
vorrei sempre sognar ♪
♪ Il sogno ch'io
♪ Fremon... già nell'anima ♪
♪ Le dolcezze estreme ♪
♪ Tu sol commandi, amore... ♪
pause playback.
Computer,
Excuse me, but your
entrance was early.
You're rushing
the tempo.
( chuckles )
I am not rushing.
You are lagging behind
like a tired donkey.
I have studied
I assure you,
the finest recordings
of this opera--
Caruso and Galli-Curci;
Pavarotti and Freni;
Soral and T'Penna
of Vulcan.
My tempo is accurate.
T'Penna... they are all fallite.
Galli-Curci... Freni...
They are mere dust balls.
Sono niente!
They are nothing.
the greatest soprano lirico
Giuseppina Pentangeli--
of the 22nd century
transcends them all.
And conductors take
their tempi from me.
Capisci?
they take it from me.
In this instance,
the orchestral playback.
I've programmed
to make this choice?
Who allows you
You are an amateur.
You have no sense of rubato,
no rallentando...
it's like
singing with a computer.
Madam, I may be an amateur,
but I'm also known
as a quick study.
( laughing )
program, you will do it my way.
And as I am in charge of this
try it again?
Shall we
start playback.
Computer,
( opera music playing )
♪ O soave fanciulla ♪
♪ O... ♪
Stop playback.
( sighs )
What now?
Non è possibile.
I couldn't remember
the words.
In all of my career, I have
never forgotten the lyrics.
This is the difference
and professionali.
between amateur
Just a momentary lapse.
No need to overreact.
Piu cretino non esiste.
This is infuriating!
I want another partner!
Lo voglio subito.
I'm the one who needs
another partner.
You've got me so upset
I can't sing.
Computer, delete...
Janeway to the Doctor.
We have a medical emergency.
Report to Sick Bay.
Right away, Captain.
Addio, madam.
my chances with Maria Callas.
Next time I'll take
delete the diva.
Computer,
Pensa veramente...
Imbecille!
Their nervous systems
suffered trauma
of neuroelectric weapon.
from some type
It must have been
extremely painful.
It certainly was.
they attacked you?
Do you know why
trying to communicate with us,
No idea. They seemed to be
understand them.
but we couldn't
lifted their weapons.
Then they just
The injuries are treatable.
It shouldn't take long.
on all subspace bands.
Tuvok, send a message
I want to find out why
my people were attacked.
Aye, Captain.
I'll ask Neelix if he knows
anything about these people.
Doctor, keep me posted.
( sighs )
didn't fidget so much.
It would help if you
I'm really feeling better.
Can't I get out of here?
When you're ready to leave,
I will tell you.
KES:
Doctor,
responding to the treatment.
Tom doesn't seem to be
I'll look at him.
Where's my retinal imager?
I haven't seen it.
from the instrument tray?
Did you move it
I haven't been near
the instrument tray.
the most unpleasant encounter
I've just had
with a madwoman
on the holodeck.
She must have upset me
more than I realized.
Lieutenant, you're perfectly
all right.
still doing here?
What are you
Thank you.
I think he must have suffered
some very deep tissue damage.
The regenerator
isn't helping.
Doctor?
Hmm?
I've made numerous hails
on wide-band subspace.
a single repeating message.
The only response has been
( clicking )
What's that?
CHAKOTAY:
it's a language so unlike ours
I'd guess
that the universal translator
can't interpret it.
Harry, remodulate
the translator.
See if we can
decipher those sounds.
Neelix, what can you tell us?
who I think they are,
If these people are
I can tell you this
is very bad news.
I've never actually
encountered them...
but from what I've heard,
I'm glad I didn't.
that enter their space
Most ships
are never heard from again.
Some have returned with
everyone on board dead.
They're a complete mystery.
how many of them there are,
No one knows their name,
what their culture is like.
Just that they really
don't want people
violating their territory.
If this is any indication
of their borders,
it's a huge area of space--
hundreds of sectors.
If we were to go around it,
it would take months.
I'd say over 15 months,
maximum warp, which we can't.
even if we could sustain
I'm not going to tell this crew
we're adding another 15 months
to this journey.
We'll have to find
another option.
If we are not to go around
their space,
the only available option
is to go through it.
Precisely.
Tom and B'Elanna
KIM:
as they crossed the border.
hit a sensor net
into it when we try to cross,
We have to figure we'll run
around sensor nets.
but there are ways
They can't possibly
CHAKOTAY:
to patrol a border this size.
have enough ships
an unguarded section.
We can probably find
Would it affect your decision
if I pointed out
territory of an alien species
that encroaching on the
Starfleet regulations?
is prohibited by
No, it wouldn't.
Captain... you have managed
to surprise me.
from Starfleet, Lieutenant.
We're a long way
I'm not about to waste
15 months
because we've run into
a bunch of bullies.
Sick Bay to Captain Janeway.
DOCTOR:
Go ahead, Doctor.
Please turn to your emergency
medical holographic channel.
I'm afraid Lieutenant Paris
neurological damage
suffered greater
than my initial scan revealed.
a motor cortex reconstruction.
I'm going to have to perform
to be overly concerned.
There's no need
is not life threatening.
His condition
a relatively simple one
The procedure is
for a skilled physician.
Very good, Doctor.
Keep me informed.
All right. I want a plan
for crossing that border
and as quietly as possible.
as quickly
We'll reconvene in an hour.
Dismissed.
♪ O soave fanciulla ♪
♪ O dolce viso ♪
♪ Di mite circonfuso
alba lunar... ♪
Doctor...
analeptics you asked for.
I have the cortical
Fill the hyposprays.
Good.
We'll begin as soon as
I've finished scrubbing.
Did I hear
you singing?
Yes.
"O soave fanciulla."
from La Bohème,
It's an aria
a truly exquisite opera
by Giacomo Puccini,
of the 19th century.
a human composer
you enjoyed music.
I didn't realize
a thorough study of opera.
I've recently begun
quite satisfying,
I find it...
difficulty finding
but I'm having
a holographic partner
for the role of Mimi.
All the soprani seem to have
irritating personalities.
the most
These women are arrogant,
superior, condescending.
I can't imagine anyone
behaving that way.
What is it?
A quiz for you.
What is the first step
in this procedure?
the axon connections
Establish
for synaptic potentials.
and then test
Ah. Quite right. Very good.
Doctor, what is it?
We seem to have
a small problem.
I... can't remember how to
perform this operation.
repaired the damaged
All right, I've
preganglionic fibers
in the spinal column.
is to restore the nerve sheath.
The final step
the myelin regenerator.
You'll need
( alarm beeping )
What is it?
into respiratory arrest.
He's going
What do I do?
to stabilize his motor neurons.
Apply an efferent impulse
Apply a... what?
Vital signs are
returning to normal.
( sighs )
regeneration is complete.
There-- myelin
What's the synaptic
potential reading?
potentials are...
Synaptic
normal.
systems are functioning.
Autonomic and somatic
( sighs )
Very good, Doctor.
I think you've done it.
seems to be experiencing
The EMH database
a cascading overload
of some kind.
Doc's memory circuits
are deteriorating.
We knew the Doctor
was never designed
as much as he has been,
to be up and running
but I thought you programmed
safety buffers,
wouldn't degrade.
so his circuits
I did, and I installed
them, but they're
breaking down.
My self-diagnostic routines
have always indicated
of cascade failure,
that in the event
be reinitialized.
I should simply
That would stop the cascade
and allow us to reset
your database and personality
subroutines, but...
But what?
the original program--
It would restore
reset him to the person he was
when we first
activated him.
In other words,
JANEWAY:
he'd forget everything
that's happened to him
over the past two years.
TORRES:
Right.
Doctor...
how do you feel about that?
to lose the last two years,
I... can't say I'd like
but my primary responsibility
is the health and welfare
of this crew. In my current
state, I am useless to them.
I believe Lieutenant Torres
the reinitialization
should start
process immediately.
No, wait.
KES:
Wait, please.
We can't just treat the Doctor
like he's a computer anymore.
He's come too far
for that.
think about this.
Doctor, please,
You'd be losing so much--
all the relationships
you've developed,
our friendship,
a true member of this crew--
your sense of being
all that would be gone.
I can't put personal concerns
over those of the crew.
Look at the experiences
you've had
since you were activated--
learned how to sing opera,
you've made friends,
fallen in love.
you've even
you won't be the same person.
If you lose those memories,
You said you don't know
his memory circuits to fail.
what's causing
Unfortunately, no.
So, if you reinitialize without
finding out what's wrong,
the problem could occur again.
Well, it's a possibility.
Isn't it a better plan to look
for the cause of the problem?
If B'Elanna can find it,
there may be a less
radical solution.
Tom Paris is stable.
He'll be back on duty today.
There's no medical crisis
at the moment.
I can certainly handle
all the routine cases
in Sick Bay.
Please, let's not
just erase him
to help him first.
without trying
with a debilitating illness,
If a crew member came down
you'd do everything
in your power
to make them well again.
I think we owe you
nothing less.
I'll get started.
Don't be discouraged.
I know B'Elanna
can find a way.
CHAKOTAY:
Captain?
I think we found it--
a way to get across the border
without being detected.
Let's hear it.
Their sensor net
uses a series
of interlaced
tachyon beams.
If we adjust the shields
to refract those beams
around the ship,
we can slip across
to have disrupted the net.
without appearing
Not bad.
And we've found
that this area
shows no indication of vessels.
We can slide through,
go to high warp,
and be through this narrow
section of their territory
in four days.
Good work.
Helm, set a course
for the border.
Aye, Captain.
What are you
doing now?
if the data corruption
I want to see
your optical sensors.
is affecting
What did that do?
( gasps )
I-I can't see.
I'm blind!
All right.
( sighs )
That is extremely disconcerting.
Please don't
do it again.
Now what are you doing?
force field projectors.
Attenuating your
Doctor, forgive me,
very delicate work.
but this is
over there for a few minutes?
Could you please sit
How extremely rude.
that I am, in a way,
May I remind you
suffering from an unknown
your patient, who's
debilitating condition.
and obviously
I would think you'd be a little
more sensitive to my needs.
You're questioning
my bedside manner?
The good news
projection system
is that your
to be affected.
doesn't seem
your circuits are degrading.
However, I don't know why
Then... what do we do now?
What we do now...
is get a second opinion.
holodeck in a few minutes.
I'll transfer you to the
Wait here.
Computer, initiate
Diagnostic Program Alpha 1-1.
Jupiter Station
The program is activated.
COMPUTER:
Computer...
transfer the program
for the Emergency Medical
Hologram to Holodeck 2.
I seem to remember
this place.
this is Jupiter Station,
You should--
where you were created
database was written.
and where your
It seems... so long ago.
This program contains
diagnostic matrix
a sophisticated
specifically created
for the Emergency
Medical System.
That's right.
remembered that.
I should have
have forgotten?
How could I
I'm going to have to play with
the systems for a few minutes.
I'm not exactly sure how to
access all the subroutines.
Don't touch that!
( sighs )
Who are you?
I'm a holographic
re-creation
of Dr. Lewis Zimmerman,
the creator of the Emergency
Medical Hologram.
diagnostic matrix.
You're the
You might say that.
Something wrong with your EMH?
Yes.
you're going to be able
I certainly hope
about this annoying problem.
to do something
What's wrong with it?
He's experiencing
a cascade failure.
His memory circuits
are degrading.
the subroutines on line...
I was trying to bring
I can do it faster.
If you don't mind,
your charming personality.
I can see where you get
Not to mention
my hairline.
Here we are--
and its component subroutines.
a schematic of the EMH
the source of the problem?
Can you determine
This isn't good.
The EMH has a level-4
memory fragmentation.
How long has the program
been active?
I have been active
for...
Almost two years.
Two years?!
Well, there's your problem.
This program
was developed
as a short-term
supplement
to your medical staff--
1,500 hours tops.
I know.
I added data compression buffers
for the additional time,
to compensate
but they're breaking down.
sophisticated program.
The EMH is a highly
You shouldn't go meddling
in its matrix when you
don't know what
you're doing.
Should we shut down
his program then,
till we figure out
how to fix him?
it doesn't matter.
At this point,
memory fragmentation,
With a level-4
it'll simply continue
to degrade.
course of action--
There's only one
a system-wide reinitialization.
Start over from scratch.
We are aware of that option.
Would it be possible to expand
his memory circuits
instead?
Of course.
Schedule it for your next
maintenance layover
at McKinley Station.
I'm afraid that isn't possible.
We're thousands of light-years
from Federation space.
nothing more I can do.
Well, there's
or live with the knowledge
Either reinitialize it,
this EMH will end up
that eventually
with the intellectual
capacity of a parsnip.
What are you saying?
Bridge to Torres.
JANEWAY:
I'm here, Captain.
We're approaching the border.
We need your help
in Engineering.
I'm on my way.
Doctor-- Zimmerman--
you haven't told us anything
that we don't already know.
What I need is to find out
memory circuits are degrading
exactly why the Doctor's
so that we can come up
with a solution.
Activate a level-4 diagnostic,
or whatever you need to do
to get us some answers.
I'll be back as soon as I can.
didn't have to go.
I... I wish you
( sighing )
I'll hurry.
I promise.
We're holding position
500,000 kilometers
from the border.
as you give the word, Captain.
I'm ready to go as soon
All set, Mr. Kim?
Lieutenant Torres is.
I'm ready whenever
Bridge to Engineering.
Torres here.
to reconfigure the shields
B'Elanna, are you ready
to match Mr. Kim's
refraction pulse?
Ready.
Captain, long-range sensors
show a large vessel
from our current position.
five light-years
According to my readings,
it's huge.
PARIS:
JANEWAY:
On screen.
Magnify.
thousands of ships.
That looks like
any energy signatures.
I'm not reading
Their propulsion systems
must be off-line.
haven't detected us.
Maybe they
Yet.
All right. Let's get through
that sensor net. Harry, go.
Engineering, initiate
the refraction pulse.
Pulse is activated.
Moving to full harmonic
resolution-- 60 percent.
80 percent.
Ninety...
Shields at nominal output.
Maximum resolution.
Mr. Paris, take us through.
Aye, sir.
Here we go.
The net is registering
as intact.
If those vessels get
the same readings,
suspect a thing.
they won't
( console beeps )
I think we did it, Captain.
Like a snake through the tube.
How about those ships?
not to have detected us.
They appear
powered up engines.
They have not
All right.
Let's get through this
as fast as we can.
your recommendation?
Mr. Paris, what's
I'll try holding
warp 9.75
for as long as I can.
If we can sustain that
for 12 hours,
a third of the way through.
we'll be nearly
Mr. Tuvok, keep your eye
on those ships.
If they so much as twitch,
I want to know it.
Captain...
something... is wrong.
What do you mean?
It's like there's a
drag on the engines.
Captain, sensors indicate
a resonant particle wave.
It's damping our warp field.
We're losing speed.
B'Elanna, can you compensate
Bridge to Engineering.
for the particle wave?
I'll try.
The antimatter reaction chamber
may have been compromised.
Keep me posted.
Hold our present speed,
Mr. Paris.
stare at these things?
Why are you making me
Please don't talk.
the fractal patterns
Stay fixed on
while I analyze your
data-path integrity.
Hmm...
Hmm?
Ew.
Well, there it is.
What? What is it?
I told you not to talk.
( sighing )
This is the problem, all right.
The personality subroutine
than 15,000 gigaquads.
has grown to more
of the degradation.
That's the source
information floating around
Look at all this useless
friendships with the crew,
your buffer--
relationships with...
women?
Do they find you attractive?
I don't remember.
You've filled your memory
with nonsense.
It was only during my off hours.
You're supposed to be off
during your off hours.
I... I didn't realize.
I'm sorry.
( door opening )
Who are you?
I'm the Doctor's assistant.
how he's doing.
I came to see
Ah, just the person I need.
Perhaps you can tell me
who's been feeding
all this useless information
into its database.
What do you mean?
I'll give you an example.
Ah! Here's something
personality subroutine.
in its
♪ O soave fanciulla ♪
♪ O... ♪
He's been studying opera.
What's wrong with that?
It wasn't programmed
to be a tenor,
it was programmed
to be a physician.
What's wrong with wanting
to be more than that?
It's superfluous.
Look at me.
I've got the same matrix,
the same holo-array,
the same neural pathways
as it does.
cluttering up my circuits
You don't see me
with irrelevancies.
I'm content to be
diagnostic program I can be.
the best possible
Your EMH should be happy
to be a fine physician.
The Doctor has taken it
upon himself
to become a person who grows
and learns and feels.
a better physician.
It's made him
can't feel anything.
An EMH program
It's emotional reactions are
simply a series of algorithms
easier to interact with.
designed to make it
He's much more than that,
for most of my life.
and I've known him
He's one of my closest friends.
You can't possibly believe
shares these feelings.
that this program
I know he does.
one of your closest friends?
Tell me, Doctor, is this
Doctor?
I'm sorry.
I don't know who you are.
What's the status
of those ships, Mr. Tuvok?
Still unpowered.
They don't seem to have
detected us.
When I was in high school,
a couple of times late at night.
I snuck out of the house
I had to tiptoe past
my parents' bedroom.
That's kind of how I feel
right now.
You sneaked out of your house?
Where were you going?
Well, I'll have to leave that
to your imagination,
Lieutenant.
Can I take a few guesses?
Captain, I'm detecting another
ship, not part of the swarm.
It has been damaged.
Propulsion systems
are not functional.
Drop out of warp.
Put it on screen.
Looks like it's
PARIS:
been pounded on for days.
Any life signs?
I'm checking.
KIM:
Only one, and it's faint.
beam the survivor to Sick Bay.
Transporter Room 1,
Harry, start scanning that ship.
See if you can figure out
what happened to it.
Aye, Captain.
from severe dehydration,
He's suffering
damage to the spinal column.
There's evidence
of trauma to the
nervous system,
in B'Elanna and Tom
just like we found
after they were attacked.
Can I talk to him?
You can try.
I'll work on restoring
his cranial nerves,
but he's so badly injured
I'm not sure it'll help.
He's a sick man.
sick people come.
This is where
Doctor, hold onto
this tricorder,
all right?
right at the patient.
Keep it pointed
the Captain of this ship.
I'm Kathryn Janeway,
Can you hear me?
Yes.
Can you tell me
what happened?
Who attacked you?
thousands of them.
There were
Little ships...
swarmed around
my freighter.
Covered every square meter
of the hull.
extracting energy
Then they began
from all the ship's systems.
We had no defense.
Then they boarded us.
neuroelectric weapons?
Did they use
what they used.
I don't know
It was painful.
People screaming...
dying.
Had you... provoked them
in any way?
We were in their space.
That was enough.
Captain,
the rest of my crew...
is there anyone else?
You're the only survivor.
I'm sorry.
regenerate your motor neurons.
This woman is trying to
We come from Mislen...
five parsecs from here
in a yellow dwarf system.
will you tell our people?
If you pass,
I'll make a point of it.
It happened so quickly...
( steady tone sounds )
were too severe.
His injuries
He's a very sick man.
Captain, the Doctor
is getting worse.
He doesn't even know
who I am anymore.
reinitialized.
He has to be
I agree, but I can't
spare B'Elanna now.
through this space
We have to get
before we're attacked
like his ship was.
As soon as it's possible,
I'll break her free.
all I can do for him?
Is there anything at
The only thing
I can think of
neural pathways active.
is to keep his
Ask him questions.
Keep him thinking.
Force him to use
his neural matrix.
slow down the degradation.
That might at least
you mustn't touch those.
Doctor,
all right to hold.
Here. This one's
on the sick man?
Shall I use it
Yes, that's a good idea.
( instrument whirs )
The pilot of the freighter died.
We should keep going.
Mr. Paris...
Captain.
I am detecting a vessel.
It's one of the swarm.
It was still attached
PARIS:
to the freighter's hull.
Shields at maximum.
Red Alert.
They are scanning us,
Captain.
Hail them.
I am getting a response.
Audio only.
( alien language )
with the universal translator?
Harry, how are you coming
I'm working on it.
be able to understand us.
Let's see if they might
Channel is open.
TUVOK:
This is Captain Kathryn Janeway
of the Federation
Starship Voyager.
to proceed peacefully
We only want
through this region of space.
( clicking )
Do you think they're trying
to communicate?
Could be, but what they're
trying to communicate
is another question.
Any progress, Harry?
I'm getting a general idea.
like... "Too late.
It's something
Should have listened."
Report.
We've been hit with some
kind of polaron burst.
The energy expenditure
TUVOK:
was not high enough
to cause any damage.
It may not have been a weapon.
is hightailing it out of here.
Captain, that little ship
sent out a polaron burst
So it scanned us,
that caused no damage,
and then took off.
changed the shield polarity.
Captain, the burst has
It's now rotating
at 92 gigahertz.
That means if anybody
wanted to find us,
it's a lot easier now.
I'll say. As far as anyone's
sensors are concerned,
we're lit up like
a Christmas tree.
swarm of ships
Captain, the
TUVOK:
has powered their engines
and turned toward us.
They are in pursuit.
Do what you can, Tom.
We have a head start.
We might be able to outrun them.
Bridge to Engineering.
Torres here.
How are you coming with
the warp drive, B'Elanna?
I'm going to try realigning
the dilithium matrix,
but we'll need to shut down
the warp drive to do it.
We can't shut down.
are headed toward us.
The alien ships
I don't know if I can do this
on the run, Captain,
but I'll give it a try.
Do the best you can.
Janeway out.
Nicoletti, we're going to
have to try
a dilithium realignment
on the fly.
Let's figure out
how to do it
without killing everyone
in Engineering.
why I can't leave this room.
I fail to understand
Stand aside, young woman, or
I will have you put on report.
Doctor, please, I'm just
trying to keep you safe.
Others can leave.
You can leave.
Why can't I leave?
holo-projectors
Because your
don't work in
the corridors.
My... what?
Please, sit down.
Doctor, you know I'm
your friend, right?
Yes. You're Kes.
Yes. Yes.
Do you remember me?
I remember you.
Of course
What an absurd question.
Oh, that's wonderful.
let me leave this place?
But why won't you
I'm trying to protect you.
Oh.
Well.
This isn't... such a bad place.
I remember...
there were a lot of people here,
wounded people.
I asked someone to...
of the medical emergency,
state the nature
and then inquired
as to the status
Medical Officer.
of their Chief
He was dead,
everyone disappeared.
and then...
I think that's when
you were activated
almost two years ago.
It seems like... last week.
Oh, surely not.
And there was a young woman.
I was rubbing her feet.
whether or not to have a child.
She was trying to decide
That was me.
I've never seen you before.
How could that be?
What else do you remember?
What a very odd question.
I remember many things.
I enjoy hearing them.
Tell me.
That doesn't seem
to be the case.
You find fault with
everything I say.
Doctor, don't think that.
You claim you're my friend,
but you don't even
call me by my name.
you don't have a name.
That's because
That's ridiculous! I...
No name!
My...
I demand you tell me
my name.
Wha-What's happening to me?
the swarm is gaining on us.
Captain,
They will be in weapons range
within five minutes.
Battle stations.
within range, Captain,
The ships are now
TUVOK:
but I do not detect
any indication
powering weapons.
that they are
Do you have any idea
what kind of weapon
systems they use?
no weapons signature at all.
Negative. Sensors show
They're only a hundred thousand
kilometers away now.
Arm all phaser banks.
Aye, Captain.
Captain.
Kes, what is it?
He's starting to dematerialize.
The Doctor is getting worse.
I'm afraid we're going
to lose him completely.
I know B'Elanna is busy,
but I wondered if Harry
could take a look at him.
I'm sorry, Kes, but
we're in the middle
of something here and I need
every hand at their posts.
Captain, they're only
KIM:
Still no weapons signature.
40,000 kilometers away.
Changing to evasive pattern
gamma-4.
Sick Bay.
Kes to Sick Bay.
How's the Doctor?
He's still losing cohesion.
No improvement.
WOMAN:
Computer, Deck 6.
Computer, initiate the Jupiter
Station Diagnostic Program.
Jupiter Station Program
is activated.
COMPUTER:
You again.
Now what?
almost completely degraded.
The Doctor's program is
We're going to lose him.
expect me to do about it.
I'm not sure what you
I expect you to help.
That's what you're programmed
to do, isn't it?
I have pointed out
over and over
I am a diagnostic tool,
not an engineer.
You have to try.
You're the only one
who can help now.
Young woman, you don't seem
to understand.
There are limitations
to my programming.
I can't just decide
to exceed them.
so why can't you?
The Doctor did,
because I'm not leaving here
You better start trying
until we accomplish
something.
It...
He... means a great deal
to you, doesn't he?
so start thinking
Yes, he does,
about his memory circuits
his holoprocessors,
his database, his matrix...
Why are you looking
at me like that?
the same matrix as the Doctor.
You told me you had
heuristic matrix, yes.
An adaptive,
In order to serve
as a diagnostic
for all the EMH programs.
Then couldn't your matrix
be substituted for his?
I...
I wouldn't have
thought of that.
I'm not sure,
But can it?
if it were possible,
but even
the same degradation would
eventually occur to my matrix.
What if yours were
grafted onto his?
Grafted?
In medicine, we
sometimes graft
portions of a healthy bone
onto a diseased one.
It gives the bone solidity
until it can heal.
something like that
Couldn't we do
with your matrices?
Well, it would require
synchronous transfer
of all the EMH databases
and subroutines.
Not an easy process,
mind you, but I...
we could try.
I suppose
Good. Let's get started.
I must point out that
you would no longer
program for the EMH.
have a diagnostic
If we don't do this, we won't
have an EMH to diagnose.
Hmm. Good point.
You'll have to return
to Sick Bay
my program there.
and transfer
Dr. Zimmerman.
Thank you,
Don't be premature.
I have no idea
if this is going to work.
Captain, our shield strength
just went to zero.
that happen?
How could
Each one of those little ships
an interferometric pulse.
is emitting
They're modulating in opposition
to our shield frequencies,
completely canceling them out.
All right, that's enough.
Tuvok, give them a phaser sweep
with the forward array.
Don't destroy any of them.
going to sit here like ducks.
Just let them know we're not
Aye, Captain.
What was that?
The interferometric pulses
they're emitting?
the energy of the phasers
They've reflected
right back to us.
Anything we fire is going to
affect us instead of them.
What about a photon torpedo?
Since our shield strength
is nonexistent,
I would not recommend it.
They're only 7,000 kilometers
away and still coming.
those interferometric pulses.
Harry, start analyzing
See if there's any pattern,
any code to them.
We might be able to
find a weakness.
I'm on it.
I'm increasingly dubious
as to the outcome
of this effort.
The EMH pathways are
seriously degraded.
They might not accept
a matrix overlay.
We have to try.
Please hurry.
I assure you I am working
as quickly as I can.
If I don't prepare
the multitronic paths properly,
there's no chance of success.
It's going to work, Doctor.
I'm sure of it.
What is?
( sighs )
Very well.
as we'll ever be.
We're as ready
to install my heuristic matrix
I've programmed the computer
onto the EMH primary circuitry.
We'll both have to
be taken off-line
for the overlay
to be made.
After the reinitialization
occurs,
the Emergency Medical Hologram.
you should activate
I understand.
You realize there will be
no second chance.
I will no longer exist.
After this,
a brief existence,
Well, it's been
but apparently a noble one.
Computer,
Zimmerman Alpha-1.
initiate program
Matrix overlay program
COMPUTER:
is active.
Please stand by.
right on top of us.
Captain, they're
I can't shake them.
clamping onto our hull.
Captain, they are
to drain our systems.
They're starting
on the interferometric pulses.
Captain, I've got a pattern
KIM:
all the ships to each other.
It's a lattice connecting
All right, here's what
we're going to do--
right back on them.
turn those pulses
on their nearest ship.
Tuvok, lock phasers
If we can destroy one of them,
the interferometric pulse
there's every chance
will cause a chain reaction.
that links them together
But the phaser fire will be
reflected back toward us.
our shield frequency
Harry, modulate
to an inverse harmonic
of the pulse.
That should allow the phasers
to hit the ship.
( yelling )
locked on a target, Captain.
Ship's phasers are
Tuvok, Harry, do it.
has disbanded, Captain.
The swarm of ships
TUVOK:
They are moving away.
to full strength.
Shields are back
KIM:
Good work, everyone.
Now let's get out of here.
It seems to be taking forever.
That's to be expected.
It's a complex procedure.
he didn't know if our doctor
Dr. Zimmerman said
his original programming
would be restored to
or if he'd regain the memories
of the past two years.
I think, at this point,
to have him back no matter what.
we'd be glad
Alpha-1 is now complete.
Zimmerman program
COMPUTER:
Computer, activate emergency
medical holographic program.
of the medical emergency.
Please state the nature
It worked.
so glad to see you.
Doctor, I am
Are you ill, young woman?
there's no emergency.
No. N-No,
I, uh... I just wanted to see
if you were all right.
It is very irresponsible
to make such frivolous use
of the EMH.
Where's your
Chief Medical Officer?
We don't have one.
an awful headache.
Actually, I have
A headache?
Nurse, tricorder.
You're the nurse?
In a way.
Humph. This woman has
a mild inflammation
of the occipital tissues.
to complain about,
Hardly enough
but I'm willing to give you
a mild analgesic.
Thank you.
Get me the vasoconstrictor
and prepare a hypospray
with three percent
hydrocortilene.
Yes, Doctor.
"O soave fanciulla" )
( Doctor humming
( humming continues )
♪ In te, vivo ravviso ♪
♪ Il sogno ch'io vorrei ♪
♪ Sempre sognar... ♪